# Cloud Computing Applications
Welcome to CS 498: Cloud Computing Applications! This 17-week course is designed to give you a comprehensive view of the world of cloud computing and Big Data. 
In this course we cover a multitude of technologies that comprise the modern stack of cloud computing. Cloud computing is an information technology revolution that has impacted many enterprise computing systems in major ways, and it will change the face of computing in the years to come. We start by introducing some major concepts in cloud computing, the economical foundations of cloud computing, and the concept of Big Data. We also cover the concept of software defined architectures, and how cloud service providers organize their offerings. We also will compare Infrastructure as a Service offered by the big three: Amazon, Google, and Microsoft, including Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as a Service, and Software as a Service along a few others. Serverless computing has gained massive popularity in recent years, as it is both economical and easy to use and deploy. We
cover serverless computing, serverless storage, and middleware required to weave on-site or end-user applications to serverless resources. We then shift our focus slightly to the topic of big data programming, and how Big Data systems are now mainly deployed in cloud environments. We cover MapReduce programming in both Apache Hadoop and Apache Spark. We then focus on cloud storage services. We introduce cloud object storage systems, virtual hard drives (block storage), and virtual archival storage options, including a discussion of Dropbox. This course also introduces large-scale data storage, along with the difficulties and problems of consensus in enormous stores that use large quantities of processors, memories, and disks. We also present distributed key-value stores and in-memory databases used for caching layers (e.g. Memcached and Redis) used in data centers for performance. Next we present NewSQL and NoSQL Databases in the cloud. We visit HBase, the scalable, low latency database that supports database operations in applications that use Hadoop. Then, we will show how Spark SQL can program SQL queries on huge data and present Distributed Publish/Subscribe systems using Kafka, a distributed log messaging system that is finding wide use in connecting Big Data and streaming applications together to form
complex systems.

We exlore how the Cloud opens up data analytics to huge volumes of data that are static or streamed at high velocity and represent an enormous variety of information. Cloud applications and data analytics represent a disruptive change in the ways that society is informed by, and uses information. We also introduce some common enterprise-level analytics applications that are offered by major cloud providers. We then look at graph processing, graph databases and machine learning in the cloud. We introduce the ideas of graph processing and present Pregel, Giraph, and Spark GraphX, as well as machine learning. Spark ML and Mllib continue the theme of programmability and application construction. We also cover the Machine Learning lifecycle, and how different cloud services contribute to it.
We then turn our attention to Fast Data systems, such as Apache Storm and Flux. We discuss real-time data streaming and introduce Storm technology that is used widely in the industry. We continue with Spark Streaming, Lambda and Kappa architectures, and a lesson on a complete streaming ecosystem. After that, we move on to the topics of virtualization and containers, which is a fundamental technology behind many cloud-based services. We cover virtualization and containers with a deeper focus, including lectures on Docker, Docker Compose, ECS, Kubernates and Infrastructure as Code.
